Release notes for the -19 compiler release (link editor, shlibs and tools)
by Kevin Enderby

New man pages:
    rld.3
    ebadexec.1

Updated man pages:
    ld.1	Added -whyload description that was missing. And note
		about how old flags are handled.
    ranlib.1	Cleaned up the description under the BUGS section.
    nm.1	Added to the description that categories are printed as well as
		the libx.a(x.o) syntax for file names and the new -j, -l and -s
		options.
    otool.l	Removed the option -g from the man page and added note about the
		minor version number to the -L option.
    cmpshlib.l	Added a note about #private_externs being reported.
    mkshlib.l	Added the -sectcreate, -segprot, and -seglinkedit descriptions

Changes related to cc-19:
    The addtion of the functions rld_load(), rld_unload() and rld_lookup() to
    libsys.  These do the real work of dynamic linking for custom pallets in IB.
    This can be use in place of most uses of the ld(1) -A option.  See the man
    page for rld(3).

Addtional notes for the release notes "Link Editor, Shared Libraries,and Tools":
    Add a paragraph to the "GNU C Compiler" section "Incompatable Changes" after
    the paragraph "Elimination of the -ES Compiler Switch":
	Elimination of the -ShLib Compiler Switch
	    The -ShLib option has been eliminated.  This was passed to the
	    objective-C translator to get the proper ordering of it's data
	    so that it could be cut apart by atom(1) in the assembler so the
	    resulting object could be placed in a shared library.  It is
	    obsolete since we have stop using the objective-C translator since
	    the 0.9 release.
    This should be documented internal to NeXT only.

    Fix the description in the "GNU C Compiler" section "New Features" 
    paragraph "Suppression of Common Sumbols" from -Wno-common to -fno-common
    which is the correct name of the option.

    Add a paragraph to the "Link Editor, Shared Libraries, and Tools" "Minor
    Changes" section after the paragraph "New -minor_version Option to
    mkshlib(l)":
	Deleted options to mkshlib(l)
	    Flags relating to specifying a.out or Mach-O file formats and flags
	    related to the objective-C translator have been deleted.  They
	    include: -Mach, -m, -u and -I.
    Again this should be documented internal to NeXT only.

    Change the paragraph "Possible Debugger Problems" to the "Link Editor,
    Shared Libraries, and Tools" "Minor Changes" section to:
	Possible debugger problems
	    The debugger has trouble without the "file.o" local text symbols
	    normally generated by a UNIX a.out style link editor.  To solve this
	    problem the compiler now generates a new SO stab at the end of the
	    text of the module.  This requires all programs linked with the new
	    link editor to be recompiled if they are to be debugged.  The
	    debugger generates a warning about this when it sees this condition.
	    For now any other compiler, namely Fortran, will not be debugable
	    at all.  We are working on just how this is to be solved.
	    Also the debugger may have trouble with the fact that common symbols
	    are now allocated in the (__DATA,__common) section instead of the
	    (__DATA,__bss) section (which will cause the section numbers no
	    longer to be constant as in the 1.0 release).

    Add to the end of the paragraph titled "Changes to the Command-Line Options"
    in the "Link Editor Notes":
	All the options to the link editor must be specified as on the man page.
	No longer is the treatment of arguments "-lx" and "-l x" or "-u sym" and
	"-usym" consider to be the same.  This is disallowed to make parsing of
	multi character options and options with multiple arguments sane.

Changes related to libsys-21 in the Impulse 0.02 release:
    A program that was linked for profiling and linked with the shared version
    of libsys on a 1.0 system will core dump with a "Floating exception" at pc
    0x050020ea (the address of __setminbrk+6) because the function _setminbrk(),
    used in the profiling runtime startoff /lib/gcrt0.o, was removed from the
    shared library.  Note that this is part of the brk and sbrk packages which
    according to the 1.0 man page states these are not supported on the NeXT
    system.

Changes releated to mk-1.0.76 for the Impulse 0.0? release:
    The cpp macros from <sys/machine.h> used for the cputype and cpusubtype
    fields of the mach_header structure have changed.  What was CPU_TYPE_MC68030
    is now CPU_TYPE_MC680x0 and what was CPU_SUBTYPE_NeXT is now
    CPU_SUBTYPE_MC68030.  The values of these macros remain the same only the
    names of them have changed.  This means that any program that wrote a Mach-O
    file for the NeXT machine will have to be changed when recommpiled.

Changes related to objc-19 and streams-15 for the Impulse 0.0? release:
    The include file <streams/error.h> has been move to <objc/error.h> which
    will cause the following error to any file that's recompiled that uses it:
	    x.c:1: streams/error.h: No such file or directory 
